
Author - Deepali

== Facebook API

The application describes the authentication of user using Facebook API and sharing various details on Facebook account.

== Description
The application is developed using Ruby on Rails. The application fully describes how a user can be authorised using Facebook API (Sign In using Facebook account) and Shares the details entered on currently active facebook account.

== Working URL
Facebook API : http://ksfacebook.herokuapp.com/

== Configuration required

 Declare the APP_KEY and APP_SECRET key in the intializers.
 
== Technical Description 

* Declared following gems in the Gemfile at the client end.

       gem 'omniauth'
       gem 'omniauth-facebook'
       gem 'pry'

* Run bundle

* Create a developer account on Facebook. Using this developer account create an application.

* Create a file omniauth.rb in the initializers folder and write the following code in this file

      Rails.application.config.middleware.use OmniAuth::Builder do
        provider :facebook, 'APP_KEY', 'APP_SECRET', :scope => 'email', :display => 'touch', :secure_image_url=> true
      end
      
      Here 
     * APP_KEY : App key provided facebook developer account
     * APP_SECRET : App secret key provided by facebook developer account

* Create a user model using the following code and save various other details.

    rails g model user provider uid name oauth_token oauth_expires_at:datetime

* For authorization the request is as follows (apply on the "Sign in with Facebook button"):
    call to '/auth/facebook'
    
* Create a callback URL using for facebook as the creation of seession the following code in routes.rb file.

    match 'auth/:provider/callback', to: 'sessions#create' ,via: [:get, :post]
    
* In sessions controller create a user session with the data collected from the omniauth. 

* Save the data in the users table.

* A session is created using the user id obtained from the above.

* If the authentication is failed the user will be redirected to the root url of the application (can be declared in the routes.rb file)

* The user can enter various details in the form provided and can share those details using.
     https://www.facebook.com/dialog/feed?app_id=APP_KEY with various other parameters
   
* The entered details are shared to the active facebook account.

* The redirect url can be declared while making the request of sharing.

* The session is destroyed after clicking on the Sign out link.
